Y Combinator x PostHog Case Study (#4046)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/customers/ycombinator.md

### How Y Combinator runs experiments to build better products

Because Y Combinator has deployed PostHog across multiple products, Cat’s team uses the entire suite of insight tools to monitor the appropriate key metric for each product. For Y Combinator Startup School, for example, the team uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and engagement — while [funnels](/manual/funnels) are more useful for Co-Founder Matching because the product involves many discrete steps. Insights are collected into shared dashboards for ease, along with additional dashboards to report on running experiments. 

“PostHog has been really great for tracking feature adoption and running experiments,” said Cat. “We’ve even used it to improve our matching algorithm by experimenting with how often we should show a random profile or remove stale profiles. We've experimented with the pace of that and it's had a significant impact."

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---

> title: How Y Combinator uses PostHog experiments to boost engagement by 40%

Reviewer: Should this be 'used' rather than 'uses'? I don't have a strong feeling about it, it just parses more easily.

Author: ```suggestion
title: How Y Combinator used PostHog experiments to boost engagement by 40%
```

customer: Y Combinator
logo: ../images/customers/ycombinator/yc_logo_b.png
featuredImage: ../images/customers/ycombinator/featured.svg
featuredCustomer: true
industries:
    - SaaS, Education
users:
    - Leadership
    - Engineering
    - Product
toolsUsed:
    - Cohorts
    - Autocapture
    - PostHog Cloud
    - Insights
---

> Y Combinator is the world’s top startup accelerator, helping to fund, train and guide the next generation of innovative businesses. Since 2005, thousands of successful companies have emerged from Y Combinator, including Dropbox, Airbnb, PagerDuty, Reddit, Amplitude…and PostHog. 

Reviewer 2: space after `Amplitude... `

Author: ```suggestion
Y Combinator is the world’s top startup accelerator, helping to fund, train and guide the next generation of innovative businesses. Since 2005, thousands of successful companies have emerged from Y Combinator, including Dropbox, Airbnb, PagerDuty, Reddit, Amplitude …and PostHog. 
```

> Y Combinator is the world’s top startup accelerator, helping to fund, train and guide the next generation of innovative businesses. Since 2005, thousands of successful companies have emerged from Y Combinator, including Dropbox, Airbnb, PagerDuty, Reddit, Amplitude …and PostHog. 

Author: ```suggestion
Y Combinator is the world’s top startup accelerator, helping to fund, train and guide the next generation of innovative businesses. Since 2005, thousands of successful companies have emerged from Y Combinator, including Dropbox, Airbnb, PagerDuty, Reddit, Amplitude... and PostHog. 
```

> "Many people find Y Combinator to be the the most productive period of their lives, which is definitely what we found”, said PostHog CEO James Hawkins in [a blogpost he wrote about his Y Combinator experience](/blog/moving-to-sf). Now, PostHog is used in many of the products we benefitted from! 

Author: ```suggestion
"Many people find Y Combinator to be the the most productive period of their lives, which is definitely what we found”, said PostHog CEO James Hawkins in [a blogpost he wrote about his Y Combinator experience](/blog/moving-to-sf). Now, PostHog is used by Y Combinator to improve many of the products we benefitted from! 
```

> "Many people find Y Combinator to be the the most productive period of their lives, which is definitely something we found”, said PostHog CEO James Hawkins in [a blogpost he wrote about his Y Combinator experience](/blog/moving-to-sf). Now, PostHog is used in many of the products we benefitted from! 

Author: ```suggestion
"Many people find Y Combinator to be the the most productive period of their lives, which is definitely what we found”, said PostHog CEO James Hawkins in [a blogpost he wrote about his Y Combinator experience](/blog/moving-to-sf). Now, PostHog is used in many of the products we benefitted from! 
```

> “Getting into Y Combinator’s W20 batch was so important for us,” said James Hawkins, PostHog’s co-founder and CEO. “The programme helped us in so many ways, from advice on [Hacker News launch](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22376732) to [helping us find our first five hires](/blog/posthog-first-five)...It’s incredibly satisfying that the team continues to use PostHog themselves!”

Reviewer 3: to be more informal, perhaps say I blogged about it for those who are curious - https://posthog.com/blog/moving-to-sf and just link to that? That post hit the HN front page so is hopefully fairly interesting

> “We use PostHog for our Startup School, for our public YC Startup Library and for a product called Co-Founder Matching,” said Cat Li, Product and Engineering Lead for Y Combinator Startup School. “PostHog is especially useful for Co-Founder Matching, which is like a dating app for co-founders.”

Author: ```suggestion
“We use PostHog for our [Startup Schoo](https://www.startupschool.org/)l, for our public YC Startup Library, and for a product called [Co-Founder Matching](https://www.ycombinator.com/cofounder-matching),” said Cat Li, Product and Engineering Lead for Y Combinator Startup School. “PostHog is especially useful for Co-Founder Matching, which is like a dating app for co-founders.”
```

> “We use PostHog for our [Startup Schoo](https://www.startupschool.org/)l, for our public [YC Startup Library](https://www.ycombinator.com/library), and for a product called [Co-Founder Matching](https://www.ycombinator.com/cofounder-matching),” said Cat Li, Product and Engineering Lead for Y Combinator Startup School. “PostHog is especially useful for Co-Founder Matching, which is like a dating app for co-founders.”

Author: ```suggestion
“We use PostHog for our [Startup Schoo](https://www.startupschool.org/)l, for our public [YC Startup Library](https://www.ycombinator.com/library), and for a product called [Co-Founder Matching](https://www.ycombinator.com/cofounder-matching),” said Cat Li, Product and Engineering Lead for Y Combinator Startup School. “PostHog is especially useful for Co-Founder Matching, which is almost like a dating app for co-founders.”
```

### How Y Combinator gathers 30% more data with PostHog than Google Analytics

> Y Combinator empowers each team to choose its own processes, tools and OKRs. Some teams use tools like Segment or Amplitude — but for the flagship Startup School project, Cat's team decided PostHog was the best tool for the job. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Y Combinator empowers each team to choose its own processes, tools, and OKRs. Some teams use tools like Segment or Amplitude — but for the flagship Startup School project, Cat's team decided PostHog was the best tool for the job. 
```

> PostHog isn’t the only tool in Y Combinator’s stack, of course. Teams across the organization can each have their own processes, tools and OKRs to guide their progress. Some teams at YCombinator use Segment or Amplitude — but for the flagship Startup School project, PostHog was a clear choice. 

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog isn’t the only tool in Y Combinator’s stack, of course. Teams across the organization can each have their own processes, tools and OKRs to guide their progress. Some teams at Y Combinator use Segment or Amplitude — but for the flagship Startup School project, PostHog was a clear choice. 
```

> “We were very thoughtful about what we wanted to use with Startup School and Cofounder Matching,” said Cat. “We chose PostHog so we wouldn’t lose a bunch of the traffic and data. We found that with Google Analytics and other platforms we would lose up to 30% of our data from users who would not allow third-party tracking, or used adblockers. Our users are very tech-savvy…very likely to block third-party cookies.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“We were very thoughtful about what we wanted to use with Startup School and Cofounder Matching,” said Cat. “We chose PostHog so we wouldn’t lose a bunch of the traffic and data. We found that with Google Analytics and other platforms we would lose up to 30% of our data from users who would not allow third-party tracking, or used adblockers. Our users are very tech-savvy... very likely to block third-party cookies.”
```

> “We were very thoughtful about what we wanted to use with Startup School and Cofounder Matching,” said Cat. “We chose PostHog so we wouldn’t lose a bunch of the traffic and data. We found that with Google Analytics and other platforms we would lose up to 30% of our data from users who would not allow third-party tracking, or used adblockers. Our users are very tech-savvy... very likely to block third-party cookies.”

Author: ```suggestion
“We were very thoughtful about what we wanted to use with Startup School and Co-founder Matching,” said Cat. “We chose PostHog so we wouldn’t lose a bunch of the traffic and data. We found that with Google Analytics and other platforms we would lose up to 30% of our data from users who would not allow third-party tracking, or used adblockers. Our users are very tech-savvy... very likely to block third-party cookies.”
```

> “Because Startup School is very wide reaching, it really matters to us that we have an accurate  understanding of what's happening. That meant PostHog was the obvious choice.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“Because Startup School is very wide reaching, it really matters to us that we have an accurate understanding of what's happening. That meant PostHog was the obvious choice.”
```

> “Tools we looked at either weren't robust enough, or required a huge amount of work to instrument,” said Cat. “But with PostHog, we could autocapture most events using [the JS snippet](/docs/integrate/client/snippet-installation) and still [configure custom events](tutorials/event-tracking-guide) when we needed to. It was the perfect balance.”

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
“Tools we looked at either weren't robust enough, or required a huge amount of work to instrument,” said Cat. “But with PostHog, we could autocapture most events using [the JS snippet](/docs/integrate/client/snippet-installation) and still [configure custom events](/tutorials/event-tracking-guide) when we needed to. It was the perfect balance.”
```

> Not only did PostHog enable Y Combinator to capture more data, it also provided a more powerful array of tools than other platforms. 

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to capturing more data, PostHog also provided a wider array of tools than other platforms, with multiple insight types, correlation analysis, and session recordings enabling Y Combinator to explore data from multiple approaches. 
```

### How Y Combinator boosted Co-founder Matching engagement by 40% 

> Since getting started with PostHog, Y Combinator has gone beyond analytics and begin using other PostHog features, such as [experiments](/product/experimentation) and [session recordings](/product/session-recording), to explore data from multiple angles at once.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Since starting with PostHog, Y Combinator has gone beyond analytics and begun using more PostHog features, such as [experiments](/product/experimentation) and [session recordings](/product/session-recording), to explore data from multiple angles at once.
```

> “Some tools, like Google Analytics, just weren’t robust enough,” said Cat. “As an engineer, I didn’t feel they offered enough detail or control. One thing we really liked about PostHog was that we had control over everything. We could autocapture a lot of events just by using the snippet, but the way we could configure server events too was great.”

Author: ```suggestion
“Other tools, like Google Analytics, just weren’t robust enough,” said Cat. “As an engineer, I didn’t feel they offered enough detail or control. One thing we really liked about PostHog was that we had control over everything. We could autocapture a lot of events just by using the snippet, but the way we could configure server events too was great.”
```

> For Startup School, for example, the team uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and share results in [dashboards](/manual/dashboards) — while [experiments](/manual/experimentation) have led to several significant improvements for Co-founder Matching. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Startup School team, for example, uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and share results in [dashboards](/manual/dashboards) — while [experiments](/manual/experimentation) have led to several significant improvements for Co-Founder Matching. 
```

Reviewer 4: Also, I think "— while [experiments](/manual/experimentation) have led to several significant improvements for Co-Founder Matching." should be its own sentence. It is a bit jarring going from trends and dashboards to experiments in one sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
For Startup School, for example, the team uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and share results in [dashboards](/manual/dashboards). For Co-Founder Matching, Y Combinator uses PostHog's [experimentation suite](/manual/experimentation) to try new ideas, some of which have led to significant improvements.  
```

> “PostHog's experimentation suite is really great,'” said Cat. “We recently used it to improve our matching algorithm by running an experiment which hides profiles that have been stale for 3, 6, 9 or 12 weeks. We found that users in the 6-week group sent 40% more messages than the control group - a huge improvement for us!”

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
“PostHog's experimentation suite is really great,” said Cat. “We recently used it to improve our matching algorithm by running an experiment which hides profiles that have been stale for 3, 6, 9 or 12 weeks. We found that users in the 6-week group sent 40% more messages than the control group - a huge improvement for us!”
```

> The level of control PostHog offers extends beyond just instrumentation, however. Cat’s team is also able to use the entire suite of insight tools to choose the appropriate key metric for each product. For Y Combinator Startup School, for example, the team uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and engagement — while [funnels](/manual/funnels) are more useful for Co-Founder Matching because the product involves many discrete steps. 

Author: ```suggestion
Because Y Combinator has deployed PostHog across multiple products, Cat’s team uses the entire suite of insight tools to monitor the appropriate key metric for each product. For Y Combinator Startup School, for example, the team uses [trends insights](/manual/trends) to monitor weekly users and engagement — while [funnels](/manual/funnels) are more useful for Co-Founder Matching because the product involves many discrete steps. Insights are collected into dashboards for ease, along with additional dashboards which report on running experiments. 
```

“And, perhaps more importantly, this experiment group had 35% more of their requests accepted - which translates to having 35% more matches than the control group.”

> Experiments and session recordings have also helped Y Combinator avoid pitfalls borne from misleading feedback.

Reviewer 4: Maybe a second sentence here to fill out this point a little more. Something about preventing wasted resources?

Author: ```suggestion
Experiments and session recordings have also helped Y Combinator avoid pitfalls borne from misleading feedback. As a result, PostHog ensures the team continues to add real value for users.
```

> **“FOLLOW UP COMMENT HERE ON THE IMPACT IT HAD.”**

Author: ```suggestion
```

"A lot of people asked us to build a feature that let co-founders collaborate on a trial project," said Cat. "But, when we ran that experiment and looked at the results, we found nobody actually used it at all. Thanks to that, we were able to redirect our efforts and avoid wasting resources.”

> “It's just like founders in our Startup School learn," explained Cat. "Building things is never just one-and-done - you always need to be testing new theories and finding ways to improve. PostHog is central to how we do that at Y Combinator.”

Reviewer 4: Might be nice to have a conclusion paragraph from us with some CTAs?

Author: Rounded this quote out a bit more, but there's a CTA included in the page layout already :)
